Federer, 37, first broke through on tour over two decades ago and he has since gone on to enjoy a glittering career. The 20-time Grand Slam winner is chasing his 99th ATP title at the Swiss Indoors this week and he faces Jan-Lennard Struff in the second round on Thursday (6pm BST). Davenport enjoyed most of her success in the late 1990s and her third and final major tournament win came at the 2000 Australian Open. But she claims the mentality of professional tennis players slowly began to change after the new millennium. "It seems pretty friendly right now," said Davenport. "I think there is a really nice environment and a great atmosphere, especially between some of the veteran players helping some of the younger players out. "It's a very pleasant atmosphere, I'd have to say, around the locker rooms. "I felt like the best weeks that I had to get to know players when I was playing were the Fed Cup weeks or the Olympic weeks, not necessarily during the tournaments. "And even though maybe we had smaller teams, I still think we kept to ourselves quite a bit. "Not always, but I really feel like in the mid-2000 years there was a huge shift of the attitudes of the top players and being more friendly and being more giving, and a lot of that had to do with players like Roger coming up. "I just felt like it really kind of changed where people were a little bit, definitely in the 90s, a lot more quiet, into themselves, and then it started to become better." Meanwhile, Federer is hoping he can improve his service game as he hunts his ninth Swiss Indoors title this week. "I didn't serve very well [against first-round opponent Filip Kranjovic," Federer said. "I think I was misfiring the corners, I was not hitting the lines enough. "Clearly you make your life more difficult, but still I was up 6-2, 3-1, break points, so things could have ended very quickly today, even though I didn't have the best serve percentage stats. "But maybe that's exactly what caught up to me eventually. It's just getting used to it. This is where the first rounds can be tricky."