Naina Talwar (Deepika Padukone) is a shy and nerdy medical student. She studies constantly and always tops her classes, but she feels like an outcast due to her introverted nature. An encounter with an old classmate, Aditi Mehra (Kalki Koechlin), makes her realize that she wants more from life than high marks. Thus, she makes an impulsive decision to follow Aditi on a hiking trip into the Himalayas, up to Manali without informing her overbearing parents. During the hike, she renews her friendship with other former classmates, Kabir "Bunny" Thapar (Ranbir Kapoor) and Avinash "Avi" Arora (Aditya Roy Kapoor). Bunny is a handsome charmer whose dream is to wander and discover the world. He does not plan to marry or settle down. He lives with his supportive father who he loves very much, and his step-mother. During their trip, seeing Aditi's silent reactions to Avi's constant flirting with other girls, Bunny and Naina realize that she is secretly in love with Avi, but does not bring the matter to surface.

In the course of the mountain trek, Bunny and Naina become close. Bunny teaches Naina to laugh, to play, and more importantly, to love. At the end of the trip, she is close to telling him that she is in love with him, but is interrupted by Avi who has accidentally found a letter accepting Bunny into a graduate school in journalism, at Northwestern University in Chicago. Bunny explains that the trip is his last hometown adventure before he leaves. He is sad to leave his friends but excited to start a career that will lead to travelling, which he dreams of, and which is why he wanted to bring his two best friends along to Manali to give them a surprise. Naina realises that love and marriage have no part in Bunny's plans and remains silent about her feelings but is happy for him as he is following his passion.

Eight years have passed, Naina has finished medical school and is now working in a clinic. In the meantime, Bunny works as a videographer for a travel show on FOX network and travels the world as he had always planned. He gets an offer to become a host for a new travel show and then receives an email from Aditi - who is getting married with Taran and wants her best friend Bunny to help her celebrate. During the course of the eight years, Aditi and Naina have become best friends. While at the wedding Bunny re-acquaints himself with Avi, Aditi & Naina. While the girls are happy to see him, Avi isn't and ends up fighting with Bunny. It is revealed in the argument that Bunny's father has died and as Kabir's was in a remote area, he was not able to attend his last rites. Naina has moved ahead in life and is not waiting to meet Bunny but they meet at Udaipur, for Aditi's lavish wedding to Taran, an awkward but sweet engineer.

Naina and Bunny find that the years haven't diminished the feelings they have for one another. But both resist love – Bunny because he is not able to figure out that he is in love with Naina and Naina, as she doesn't want to get her heart broken again. A day before the wedding, Bunny sees Naina with another man, Vikram, who is the wedding photographer. He is Naina's friend, but Bunny assumes him to be her boyfriend, feels jealous and argues with him, finally sending him away. Bunny and Naina meet, argue, and reveal their feelings by a kiss. Yet neither of them is willing to give up a career to follow the other. It seems that their romance is over. Bunny also confronts Aditi about her crush on Avi. She admits that she had feelings for Avi but says that she has gotten over him and is extremely happy with Taran. Bunny leaves for home on the night of Aditi's wedding and will leave for Paris three weeks later for his dream job as a travel show host. On New Year's Eve, as Naina sits alone at home along with her dog, someone knocks on her door and it's Bunny. He surprises her with a kiss. He has turned down his dream job to be with Naina and proposes to her, but Naina fears that he might regret his decision in the future. However, Bunny says that he is happy with Naina and wants to continue travelling but with her. He argues that somehow they can make a life together. Naina agrees. Bunny and Naina then get engaged and finally declare their love properly for one another. They have a conference call between Aditi and Avi. Avi is dejected, at his bar which is closing and Aditi is at the airport as a newlywed leaving for her honeymoon to Venice, with Taran. The friends find out about Bunny and Naina and are overwhelmed. Aditi states that she always kind of knew about the sparks between them. They all wish each other a Happy New Year and the film ends with Bunny and Naina smiling and embracing each other.